site/install.md, before:

---
layout: default
---
<!--
{% comment %}
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

## Current Version: {{site.data.versions['current'].number}}

### Released: {{site.data.versions['current'].date}}

See the [release notes][10] for more about what's new.

### Source release

* **Source Release**: [{{site.data.versions['current'].tarball_name}}][6]
* **Verification**: [asc signature][13], [sha256 checksum][14], [sha512 checksum][15], ([verification instructions][12])
* [Git tag {{site.data.versions['current'].git-tag}}][2]
* [GPG keys for release signatures][11]

### Java Packages

[Java Artifacts on Maven Central][4]

## Binary Installers for C, C++, Python

### C++ and Python Conda Packages (Unofficial)

We have provided binary conda packages on [conda-forge][5] for the following
platforms:

* Linux and macOS (Python 2.7, 3.6 and 3.7)
* Windows (Python 3.6 and 3.7)

Install them with:


```shell
conda install arrow-cpp={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}} -c conda-forge
conda install pyarrow={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}} -c conda-forge
```

### Python Wheels on PyPI

We have provided official binary wheels on PyPI for Linux, macOS, and Windows:

```shell
pip install pyarrow=={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}}
```

We recommend pinning `{{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}}`
in `requirements.txt` to install the latest patch release.

These include the Apache Arrow and Apache Parquet C++ binary libraries bundled
with the wheel.

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages on Homebrew (Unofficial)

On macOS, you can install the C++ library using
[Homebrew][17]:

```shell
brew install apache-arrow
```

and GLib (C) package with:

```shell
brew install apache-arrow-glib
```

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages for Debian GNU/Linux, Ubuntu and CentOS (Unofficial)

We have provided APT and Yum repositories for Apache Arrow C++ and
Apache Arrow GLib (C). Here are supported platforms:

* Debian GNU/Linux stretch
* Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 16.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 18.10
* CentOS 6
* CentOS 7

Debian GNU/Linux:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/backports.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://deb.debian.org/debian $(lsb_release --codename --short)-backports main
APT_LINE
sudo curl --output /usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
curl https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/llvm.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS or later:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https gnupg lsb-release wget
sudo wget -O /usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 16.04 LTS:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
curl https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/arrow/KEYS | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
curl https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/llvm.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
curl https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/arrow/KEYS | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

CentOS:

```shell
sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/Apache-Arrow.repo <<REPO
[apache-arrow]
name=Apache Arrow
baseurl=https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/centos/\$releasever/\$basearch/
gpgcheck=1
enabled=1
gpgkey=https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/centos/RPM-GPG-KEY-apache-arrow
REPO
sudo yum install -y epel-release
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel arrow-devel # For C++
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel arrow-glib-devel # For GLib (C)
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel parquet-devel # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel parquet-glib-devel # For Parquet GLib (C)
```

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages for MSYS2 (Unofficial)

The official MSYS2 packages include [Apache Arrow C++ and GLib (C)
package][16]. You can install the package by `pacman`.

64bit version:

```shell
pacman -S --noconfirm mingw-w64-x86_64-arrow
```

32bit version:

```shell
pacman -S --noconfirm mingw-w64-i686-arrow
```

[1]: {{site.data.versions['current'].mirrors}}
[2]: {{site.data.versions['current'].github-tag-link}}
[4]: {{site.data.versions['current'].java-artifacts}}
[5]: https://conda-forge.github.io
[6]: {{site.data.versions['current'].mirrors-tar}}
[10]: {{site.data.versions['current'].release-notes}}
[11]: https://www.apache.org/dist/arrow/KEYS
[12]: https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify
[13]: {{site.data.versions['current'].asc}}
[14]: {{site.data.versions['current'].sha256}}
[15]: {{site.data.versions['current'].sha512}}
[16]: https://github.com/msys2/MINGW-packages/tree/master/mingw-w64-arrow
[17]: https://brew.sh/

Commit message:

ARROW-5442: [Website] Clarify what makes a release artifact "official"
Author: Neal Richardson <neal.p.richardson@gmail.com>

Closes #4411 from nealrichardson/official-builds and squashes the following commits:

95a6262a6 <Neal Richardson> Remove one more 'official'
c96ef34bd <Neal Richardson> Explain 'official' releases and reorg a little

site/install.md, after:

---
layout: default
---
<!--
{% comment %}
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

## Current Version: {{site.data.versions['current'].number}}

### Released: {{site.data.versions['current'].date}}

See the [release notes][10] for more about what's new.

### Source Release

* **Source Release**: [{{site.data.versions['current'].tarball_name}}][6]
* **Verification**: [asc signature][13], [sha256 checksum][14], [sha512 checksum][15], ([verification instructions][12])
* [Git tag {{site.data.versions['current'].git-tag}}][2]
* [GPG keys for release signatures][11]

### Java Packages

[Java Artifacts on Maven Central][4]

### Python Wheels

We have provided official binary wheels on PyPI for Linux, macOS, and Windows:

```shell
pip install pyarrow=={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}}
```

We recommend pinning `{{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}}`
in `requirements.txt` to install the latest patch release.

These include the Apache Arrow and Apache Parquet C++ binary libraries bundled
with the wheel.

## Other Binary Installers

For convenience, we also provide binaries through several package managers, built from the source release. As the Apache Arrow PMC has not explicitly voted on these packages, they are technically considered unofficial releases.

### C++ and Python Conda Packages

Binary conda packages are on [conda-forge][5] for the following
platforms:

* Linux and macOS (Python 2.7, 3.6 and 3.7)
* Windows (Python 3.6 and 3.7)

Install them with:

```shell
conda install arrow-cpp={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}} -c conda-forge
conda install pyarrow={{site.data.versions['current'].pinned_number}} -c conda-forge
```

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages on Homebrew

On macOS, you can install the C++ library using
[Homebrew][17]:

```shell
brew install apache-arrow
```

and GLib (C) package with:

```shell
brew install apache-arrow-glib
```

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages for Debian GNU/Linux, Ubuntu and CentOS

We have provided APT and Yum repositories for Apache Arrow C++ and
Apache Arrow GLib (C). Here are supported platforms:

* Debian GNU/Linux stretch
* Ubuntu 14.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 16.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 18.04 LTS
* Ubuntu 18.10
* CentOS 6
* CentOS 7

Debian GNU/Linux:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/backports.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://deb.debian.org/debian $(lsb_release --codename --short)-backports main
APT_LINE
sudo curl --output /usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
curl https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/llvm.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 18.04 LTS or later:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https gnupg lsb-release wget
sudo wget -O /usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/apache-arrow-keyring.gpg] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 16.04 LTS:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
curl https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/arrow/KEYS | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
curl https://apt.llvm.org/llvm-snapshot.gpg.key | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/llvm.list <<APT_LINE
deb http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
deb-src http://apt.llvm.org/$(lsb_release --codename --short)/ llvm-toolchain-$(lsb_release --codename --short)-7 main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-dev # For Gandiva C++
sudo apt install -y -V libgandiva-glib-dev # For Gandiva GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

Ubuntu 14.04 LTS:

```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V apt-transport-https curl gnupg lsb-release
curl https://dist.apache.org/repos/dist/dev/arrow/KEYS | sudo apt-key add -
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/apache-arrow.list <<APT_LINE
deb [arch=amd64] https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
deb-src https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/$(lsb_release --id --short | tr 'A-Z' 'a-z')/ $(lsb_release --codename --short) main
APT_LINE
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-dev # For C++
sudo apt install -y -V libarrow-glib-dev # For GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-dev # For Plasma C++
sudo apt install -y -V libplasma-glib-dev # For Plasma GLib (C)
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-dev # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo apt install -y -V libparquet-glib-dev # For Apache Parquet GLib (C)
```

CentOS:

```shell
sudo tee /etc/yum.repos.d/Apache-Arrow.repo <<REPO
[apache-arrow]
name=Apache Arrow
baseurl=https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/centos/\$releasever/\$basearch/
gpgcheck=1
enabled=1
gpgkey=https://dl.bintray.com/apache/arrow/centos/RPM-GPG-KEY-apache-arrow
REPO
sudo yum install -y epel-release
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel arrow-devel # For C++
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel arrow-glib-devel # For GLib (C)
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel parquet-devel # For Apache Parquet C++
sudo yum install -y --enablerepo=epel parquet-glib-devel # For Parquet GLib (C)
```

### C++ and GLib (C) Packages for MSYS2

The MSYS2 packages include [Apache Arrow C++ and GLib (C)
package][16]. You can install the package by `pacman`.

64bit version:

```shell
pacman -S --noconfirm mingw-w64-x86_64-arrow
```

32bit version:

```shell
pacman -S --noconfirm mingw-w64-i686-arrow
```

[1]: {{site.data.versions['current'].mirrors}}
[2]: {{site.data.versions['current'].github-tag-link}}
[4]: {{site.data.versions['current'].java-artifacts}}
[5]: https://conda-forge.github.io
[6]: {{site.data.versions['current'].mirrors-tar}}
[10]: {{site.data.versions['current'].release-notes}}
[11]: https://www.apache.org/dist/arrow/KEYS
[12]: https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi#verify
[13]: {{site.data.versions['current'].asc}}
[14]: {{site.data.versions['current'].sha256}}
[15]: {{site.data.versions['current'].sha512}}
[16]: https://github.com/msys2/MINGW-packages/tree/master/mingw-w64-arrow
[17]: https://brew.sh/
