site/powered_by.md, before:

---
layout: default
---
<!--
{% comment %}
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

## Powered By

### Project and Product names using "Apache Arrow"

Organizations creating products and projects for use with Apache Arrow, along
with associated marketing materials, should take care to respect the trademark
in "Apache Arrow" and its logo. Please refer to [ASF Trademarks Guidance][1]
and associated [FAQ][2] for comprehensive and authoritative guidance on proper
usage of ASF trademarks.

Names that do not include "Apache Arrow" at all have no potential trademark
issue with the Apache Arrow project. This is recommended.

Names like "Apache Arrow BigCoProduct" are not OK, as are names including
"Apache Arrow" in general. The above links, however, describe some exceptions,
like for names such as "BigCoProduct, powered by Apache Arrow" or
"BigCoProduct for Apache Arrow".

It is common practice to create software identifiers (Maven coordinates, module
names, etc.) like "arrow-foo". These are permitted. Nominative use of trademarks
in descriptions is also always allowed, as in "BigCoProduct is a widget for
Apache Arrow".

### Open Source Projects

To add yourself to the list, please email dev@arrow.apache.org with your
organization name, URL, a list of which Arrow components you are using, and a
short description of your use case.

* **[Apache Parquet][3]:** A columnar storage format available to any project
  in the Hadoop ecosystem, regardless of the choice of data processing
  framework, data model or programming language. The C++ and Java
  implementation provide vectorized reads and write to/from Arrow data
  structures.
* **[Apache Spark][7]:** Apache Spark™ is a fast and general engine for
  large-scale data processing. Spark uses Apache Arrow to
  1. improve performance of conversion between Spark DataFrame and pandas DataFrame
  2. enable a set of vectorized user-defined functions (`pandas_udf`) in PySpark.
* **[Dask][15]:** Python library for parallel and distributed execution of
  dynamic task graphs. Dask supports using pyarrow for accessing Parquet
  files
* **[GeoMesa][8]:** A suite of tools that enables large-scale geospatial query
  and analytics on distributed computing systems. GeoMesa supports query
  results in the Arrow IPC format, which can then be used for in-browser
  visualizations and/or further analytics.
* **[libgdf][14]:** A C library of CUDA-based analytics functions and GPU IPC
  support for structured data. Uses the Arrow IPC format and targets the Arrow
  memory layout in its analytic functions. This work is part of the [GPU Open
  Analytics Initiative][11]
* **[MapD][10]:** in-memory columnar SQL engine designed to run on GPUs. MapD
  supports Arrow for data ingest and data interchange via CUDA IPC
  handles. This work is part of the [GPU Open Analytics Initiative][11]
* **[pandas][12]:** data analysis toolkit for Python programmers. pandas
  supports reading and writing Parquet files using pyarrow. Several pandas
  core developers are also contributors to Apache Arrow.
* **[Ray][5]:** A flexible, high-performance distributed execution framework
  with a focus on machine learning and AI applications. Uses Arrow to
  efficiently store Python data structures containing large arrays of numerical
  data. Data can be accessed with zero-copy by multiple processes using the
  [Plasma shared memory object store][6] which originated from Ray and is part
  of Arrow now.
* **[Red Data Tools][16]:** A project that provides data processing
  tools for Ruby. It provides [Red Arrow][17] that is a Ruby bindings
  of Apache Arrow based on Apache Arrow GLib. Red Arrow is a core
  library for it. It also provides many Ruby libraries to integrate
  existing Ruby libraries with Apache Arrow. They use Red Arrow.
* **[Turbodbc][4]:** Python module to access relational databases via the Open
  Database Connectivity (ODBC) interface. It provides the ability to return
  Arrow Tables and RecordBatches in addition to the Python Database API
  Specification 2.0.

### Companies and Organizations

To add yourself to the list, please email dev@arrow.apache.org with your
organization name, URL, a list of which Arrow components you are using, and a
short description of your use case.

* **[Dremio][9]:** A self-service data platform. Dremio makes it easy for
  users to discover, curate, accelerate, and share data from any source.
  It includes a distributed SQL execution engine based on Apache Arrow.
  Dremio reads data from any source (RDBMS, HDFS, S3, NoSQL) into Arrow
  buffers, and provides fast SQL access via ODBC, JDBC, and REST for BI,
  Python, R, and more (all backed by Apache Arrow).
* **[GOAI][19]:** Open GPU-Accelerated Analytics Initiative for Arrow-powered 
  analytics across GPU tools and vendors  
* **[Graphistry][18]:** Supercharged Visual Investigation Platform used by
  teams for security, anti-fraud, and related investigations. The Graphistry
  team uses Arrow in its NodeJS GPU backend and client libraries, and is an
  early contributing member to GOAI and Arrow\[JS\] focused on bringing these 
  technologies to the enterprise.  
* **[Quilt Data][13]:** Quilt is a data package manager, designed to make
  managing data as easy as managing code. It supports Parquet format via
  pyarrow for data access.

[1]: https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/
[2]: https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/faq/
[3]: https://parquet.apache.org/
[4]: https://github.com/blue-yonder/turbodbc
[5]: https://github.com/ray-project/ray
[6]: https://ray-project.github.io/2017/08/08/plasma-in-memory-object-store.html
[7]: https://spark.apache.org/
[8]: https://github.com/locationtech/geomesa
[9]: https://www.dremio.com/
[10]: https://github.com/mapd/mapd-core
[11]: https://gpuopenanalytics.com/
[12]: https://pandas.pydata.org
[13]: https://quiltdata.com/
[14]: https://github.com/gpuopenanalytics/libgdf
[15]: https://github.com/dask/dask
[16]: https://red-data-tools.github.io/
[17]: https://github.com/red-data-tools/red-arrow/
[18]: https://www.graphistry.com
[19]: http://gpuopenanalytics.com

Commit message:

ARROW-1978: [Website] Consolidate Powered By project list, add more visibly to front page
There can be a fine line between what is an open source project and what is a company and what is a product or organization, so to keep things simple I have consolidated things into a single list without passing any judgments. I have also added a link to the Powered By page that is visible without digging into any menus on the front page

Author: Wes McKinney <wes.mckinney@twosigma.com>

Closes #1465 from wesm/website-powered-by-simplify and squashes the following commits:

7c43e0bd [Wes McKinney] Suggest adding to Powered By by pull request instead of e-mailing
9a61eed0 [Wes McKinney] Consolidate Powered By project list, add more visibly to front page

site/powered_by.md, after:

---
layout: default
---
<!--
{% comment %}
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
{% endcomment %}
-->

## Powered By

### Project and Product names using "Apache Arrow"

Organizations creating products and projects for use with Apache Arrow, along
with associated marketing materials, should take care to respect the trademark
in "Apache Arrow" and its logo. Please refer to [ASF Trademarks Guidance][1]
and associated [FAQ][2] for comprehensive and authoritative guidance on proper
usage of ASF trademarks.

Names that do not include "Apache Arrow" at all have no potential trademark
issue with the Apache Arrow project. This is recommended.

Names like "Apache Arrow BigCoProduct" are not OK, as are names including
"Apache Arrow" in general. The above links, however, describe some exceptions,
like for names such as "BigCoProduct, powered by Apache Arrow" or
"BigCoProduct for Apache Arrow".

It is common practice to create software identifiers (Maven coordinates, module
names, etc.) like "arrow-foo". These are permitted. Nominative use of trademarks
in descriptions is also always allowed, as in "BigCoProduct is a widget for
Apache Arrow".

To add yourself to the list, please open a pull request adding your
organization name, URL, a list of which Arrow components you are using, and a
short description of your use case. See the following for some examples.

* **[Apache Parquet][3]:** A columnar storage format available to any project
  in the Hadoop ecosystem, regardless of the choice of data processing
  framework, data model or programming language. The C++ and Java
  implementation provide vectorized reads and write to/from Arrow data
  structures.
* **[Apache Spark][7]:** Apache Spark™ is a fast and general engine for
  large-scale data processing. Spark uses Apache Arrow to
  1. improve performance of conversion between Spark DataFrame and pandas DataFrame
  2. enable a set of vectorized user-defined functions (`pandas_udf`) in PySpark.
* **[Dask][15]:** Python library for parallel and distributed execution of
  dynamic task graphs. Dask supports using pyarrow for accessing Parquet
  files
* **[Dremio][9]:** A self-service data platform. Dremio makes it easy for
  users to discover, curate, accelerate, and share data from any source.
  It includes a distributed SQL execution engine based on Apache Arrow.
  Dremio reads data from any source (RDBMS, HDFS, S3, NoSQL) into Arrow
  buffers, and provides fast SQL access via ODBC, JDBC, and REST for BI,
  Python, R, and more (all backed by Apache Arrow).
* **[GeoMesa][8]:** A suite of tools that enables large-scale geospatial query
  and analytics on distributed computing systems. GeoMesa supports query
  results in the Arrow IPC format, which can then be used for in-browser
  visualizations and/or further analytics.
* **[GOAI][19]:** Open GPU-Accelerated Analytics Initiative for Arrow-powered
  analytics across GPU tools and vendors
* **[Graphistry][18]:** Supercharged Visual Investigation Platform used by
  teams for security, anti-fraud, and related investigations. The Graphistry
  team uses Arrow in its NodeJS GPU backend and client libraries, and is an
  early contributing member to GOAI and Arrow\[JS\] focused on bringing these
  technologies to the enterprise.
* **[libgdf][14]:** A C library of CUDA-based analytics functions and GPU IPC
  support for structured data. Uses the Arrow IPC format and targets the Arrow
  memory layout in its analytic functions. This work is part of the [GPU Open
  Analytics Initiative][11]
* **[MapD][10]:** in-memory columnar SQL engine designed to run on GPUs. MapD
  supports Arrow for data ingest and data interchange via CUDA IPC
  handles. This work is part of the [GPU Open Analytics Initiative][11]
* **[pandas][12]:** data analysis toolkit for Python programmers. pandas
  supports reading and writing Parquet files using pyarrow. Several pandas
  core developers are also contributors to Apache Arrow.
* **[Quilt Data][13]:** Quilt is a data package manager, designed to make
  managing data as easy as managing code. It supports Parquet format via
  pyarrow for data access.
* **[Ray][5]:** A flexible, high-performance distributed execution framework
  with a focus on machine learning and AI applications. Uses Arrow to
  efficiently store Python data structures containing large arrays of numerical
  data. Data can be accessed with zero-copy by multiple processes using the
  [Plasma shared memory object store][6] which originated from Ray and is part
  of Arrow now.
* **[Red Data Tools][16]:** A project that provides data processing
  tools for Ruby. It provides [Red Arrow][17] that is a Ruby bindings
  of Apache Arrow based on Apache Arrow GLib. Red Arrow is a core
  library for it. It also provides many Ruby libraries to integrate
  existing Ruby libraries with Apache Arrow. They use Red Arrow.
* **[Turbodbc][4]:** Python module to access relational databases via the Open
  Database Connectivity (ODBC) interface. It provides the ability to return
  Arrow Tables and RecordBatches in addition to the Python Database API
  Specification 2.0.

[1]: https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/
[2]: https://www.apache.org/foundation/marks/faq/
[3]: https://parquet.apache.org/
[4]: https://github.com/blue-yonder/turbodbc
[5]: https://github.com/ray-project/ray
[6]: https://ray-project.github.io/2017/08/08/plasma-in-memory-object-store.html
[7]: https://spark.apache.org/
[8]: https://github.com/locationtech/geomesa
[9]: https://www.dremio.com/
[10]: https://github.com/mapd/mapd-core
[11]: https://gpuopenanalytics.com/
[12]: https://pandas.pydata.org
[13]: https://quiltdata.com/
[14]: https://github.com/gpuopenanalytics/libgdf
[15]: https://github.com/dask/dask
[16]: https://red-data-tools.github.io/
[17]: https://github.com/red-data-tools/red-arrow/
[18]: https://www.graphistry.com
[19]: http://gpuopenanalytics.com
