site/README.md, before:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

## Apache Arrow Website

### Development instructions

If you are planning to publish the website, you must first clone the arrow-site
git repository:

```shell
git clone --branch=asf-site https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/arrow-site.git asf-site
```

Now, with Ruby >= 2.1 installed, run:

```shell
gem install jekyll bundler
bundle install

# This imports the format Markdown documents so they will be rendered
scripts/sync_format_docs.sh

bundle exec jekyll serve
```

### Publishing

After following the above instructions the base `site/` directory, run:

```shell
JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build
rsync -r build/ asf-site/
cd asf-site
git status
```

Now `git add` any new files, then commit everything, and push:

```
git push
```

### Updating Code Documentation

#### Java

```
cd ../java
mvn install
mvn site
rsync -r target/site/apidocs/ ../site/asf-site/docs/java/
```

#### C++

```
cd ../cpp/apidoc
doxygen Doxyfile
rsync -r html/ ../../site/asf-site/docs/cpp
```

#### Python

First, build PyArrow with all optional extensions (Apache Parquet).

```
cd ../python
python setup.py build_ext --inplace --with-parquet --with-plasma
python setup.py build_sphinx -s doc/source
rsync -r doc/_build/html/ ../site/asf-site/docs/python/
```

#### C (GLib)

First, build Apache Arrow C++ and Apache Arrow GLib.

```
mkdir -p ../cpp/build
cd ../cpp/build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug
make
cd ../../c_glib
./autogen.sh
./configure \
  --with-arrow-cpp-build-dir=$PWD/../cpp/build \
  --with-arrow-cpp-build-type=debug \
  --enable-gtk-doc
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD/../cpp/build/debug make GTK_DOC_V_XREF=": "
rsync -r doc/reference/html/ ../site/asf-site/docs/c_glib/
```

#### Javascript

```
cd ../js
npm run doc
rsync -r doc/ ../site/asf-site/docs/js
```

Then add/commit/push from the site/asf-site git checkout.

Commit message:

ARROW-2613: [Docs] Update the gen_apidocs docker script
Author: Korn, Uwe <Uwe.Korn@blue-yonder.com>

Closes #2068 from xhochy/ARROW-2613 and squashes the following commits:

ec955c4a <Korn, Uwe> ARROW-2613:  Update the gen_apidocs docker script

site/README.md, after:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

## Apache Arrow Website

### Development instructions

If you are planning to publish the website, you must first clone the arrow-site
git repository:

```shell
git clone --branch=asf-site https://git-wip-us.apache.org/repos/asf/arrow-site.git asf-site
```

Now, with Ruby >= 2.1 installed, run:

```shell
gem install jekyll bundler
bundle install

# This imports the format Markdown documents so they will be rendered
scripts/sync_format_docs.sh

bundle exec jekyll serve
```

### Publishing

After following the above instructions the base `site/` directory, run:

```shell
JEKYLL_ENV=production bundle exec jekyll build
rsync -r build/ asf-site/
cd asf-site
git status
```

Now `git add` any new files, then commit everything, and push:

```
git push
```

### Updating Code Documentation

To update the documentation, run the script `./dev/gen_apidocs.sh`. This script
will run the code documentation tools in a fixed environment.

#### C (GLib)

First, build Apache Arrow C++ and Apache Arrow GLib.

```
mkdir -p ../cpp/build
cd ../cpp/build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=debug
make
cd ../../c_glib
./autogen.sh
./configure \
  --with-arrow-cpp-build-dir=$PWD/../cpp/build \
  --with-arrow-cpp-build-type=debug \
  --enable-gtk-doc
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$PWD/../cpp/build/debug make GTK_DOC_V_XREF=": "
rsync -r doc/reference/html/ ../site/asf-site/docs/c_glib/
```

#### Javascript

```
cd ../js
npm run doc
rsync -r doc/ ../site/asf-site/docs/js
```

Then add/commit/push from the site/asf-site git checkout.
