docs/source/developers/integration.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. _integration:

Integration Testing
===================

Prerequisites
-------------

Arrow uses `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/>`_ and
`docker-compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_ for integration testing.
You can follow the installation `instructions <https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/>`_.

Docker images (services)
------------------------

The docker-compose services are defined in the ``docker-compose.yml`` file.
Each service usually correspond to a language binding or an important service to
test with Arrow.

Services are configured with 2 local mounts, ``/arrow`` for the top-level source
directory and ``/build`` for caching build artifacts. The source level
directory mount can be paired with git checkout to test a specific commit. The
build mount is used for caching and sharing state between staged images.

- *c_glib*: Builds the GLib bindings
- *cpp*: Builds the C++ project
- *go*: Builds the go project
- *java*: Builds the Java project
- *js*: Builds the Javascript project
- *python*: Builds the python bindings
- *r*: Builds the R bindings
- *rust*: Builds the rust project
- *lint*: Run various lint on the C++ sources
- *iwyu*: Run include-what-you-use on the C++ sources
- *clang-format*: Run clang-format on the C++ sources
- *docs*: Builds this documentation

You can build and run a service by using the `build` and `run` docker-compose
sub-command, e.g. `docker-compose build python && docker-compose run python`.
We do not publish the build images, you need to build them manually. This
method requires the user to build the images in reverse dependency order. To
simplify this, we provide a Makefile.

.. code-block:: shell

   # Build and run manually
   docker-compose build cpp
   docker-compose build python
   docker-compose run python

   # Using the makefile with proper image dependency resolution
   make -f Makefile.docker python

Commit message:

ARROW-2981: [C++] improve clang-tidy usability
- adds a docker-compose service for running clang-tidy
- docker-compose runs as root, so the files touched by clang-tidy and clang-format were owned by root. They are now passed back to the user
- clang-format is run after clang-tidy because the latter munges formatting

I ran clang-tidy then cleaned up the build errors [in this branch](https://github.com/apache/arrow/compare/f92830fa751d791854e9bac9c34755dd730ec375...bkietz:clang-tidy-run-example) to give an idea of what things are changed and what things can go wrong.

Author: Benjamin Kietzman <bengilgit@gmail.com>

Closes #4293 from bkietz/2981-Support-scripts-documentation-for-runnin and squashes the following commits:

63ac52c8d <Benjamin Kietzman> refactor clang-tidy: don't modify sources
31e475598 <Benjamin Kietzman> run code-modifying linters with lint_user
fa5af80dd <Benjamin Kietzman> add description of producing HeaderFilterRegex
3ecc91d0f <Benjamin Kietzman> built-in clang-format didn't match ninja format
2193dab2e <Benjamin Kietzman> mention clang-tidy in integration.rst
0724b5554 <Benjamin Kietzman> update clang-tidy's header regex to sort-of match lint_exclusions.txt
df3a12148 <Benjamin Kietzman> clang-tidy can run clang-format automatically
ed2b2311e <Benjamin Kietzman> maintain ownership when running clang-{format,tidy}
a87dd0464 <Benjamin Kietzman> adding docker-compose endpoint for clang-tidy

docs/source/developers/integration.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

.. _integration:

Integration Testing
===================

Prerequisites
-------------

Arrow uses `Docker <https://docs.docker.com/>`_ and
`docker-compose <https://docs.docker.com/compose/>`_ for integration testing.
You can follow the installation `instructions <https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/>`_.

Docker images (services)
------------------------

The docker-compose services are defined in the ``docker-compose.yml`` file.
Each service usually correspond to a language binding or an important service to
test with Arrow.

Services are configured with 2 local mounts, ``/arrow`` for the top-level source
directory and ``/build`` for caching build artifacts. The source level
directory mount can be paired with git checkout to test a specific commit. The
build mount is used for caching and sharing state between staged images.

- *c_glib*: Builds the GLib bindings
- *cpp*: Builds the C++ project
- *go*: Builds the go project
- *java*: Builds the Java project
- *js*: Builds the Javascript project
- *python*: Builds the python bindings
- *r*: Builds the R bindings
- *rust*: Builds the rust project
- *lint*: Run various lint on the C++ sources
- *iwyu*: Run include-what-you-use on the C++ sources
- *clang-format*: Run clang-format on the C++ sources, modifying in place
- *clang-tidy*: Run clang-tidy on the C++ sources, outputting recommendations
- *docs*: Builds this documentation

You can build and run a service by using the `build` and `run` docker-compose
sub-command, e.g. `docker-compose build python && docker-compose run python`.
We do not publish the build images, you need to build them manually. This
method requires the user to build the images in reverse dependency order. To
simplify this, we provide a Makefile.

.. code-block:: shell

   # Build and run manually
   docker-compose build cpp
   docker-compose build python
   docker-compose run python

   # Using the makefile with proper image dependency resolution
   make -f Makefile.docker python
