matlab/README.md, before:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

## MATLAB Library for Apache Arrow

## Status

This is a very early stage MATLAB interface to the Apache Arrow C++ libraries.

The current code only supports reading numeric types from Feather files.

## Building from source

### Get Arrow and build Arrow CPP

See: [Arrow CPP README](../cpp/README.md)

### Build MATLAB interface to Apache Arrow using MATLAB R2018a or later:

    cd arrow/matlab
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

### Non-standard MATLAB and Arrow installations

To specify a non-standard MATLAB install location, use the Matlab_ROOT_DIR CMake flag:

    cmake .. -DMatlab_ROOT_DIR=/<PATH_TO_MATLAB_INSTALL>

To specify a non-standard Arrow install location, use the ARROW_HOME CMake flag:

    cmake .. -DARROW_HOME=/<PATH_TO_ARROW_INSTALL>

## Try it out

### Add the src and build directories to your MATLAB path

``` matlab
>> cd(fullfile('arrow', 'matlab'));
>> addpath src;
>> addpath build;
```

### Read a Feather file into MATLAB as a table

``` matlab
>> filename = fullfile('arrow', 'matlab', 'test', 'numericDatatypesWithNoNulls.feather');
>> t = featherread(filename);
```

This should return a MATLAB table datatype containing the Feather file contents.

## Running the tests

``` matlab
>> cd(fullfile('arrow', 'matlab'));
>> addpath src;
>> addpath build;
>> cd test;
>> runtests .;
```

Commit message:

ARROW-5329: [MATLAB] Add support for building MATLAB interface to Feather directly within MATLAB
The MATLAB interface to Feather currently uses CMake to build MEX files. It would be convenient to be able to build the MEX file used by the MATLAB interface to Feather directly using normal MATLAB commands.

This will also provide a workaround for MEX compilation issues when using older CMake versions with newer versions of MATLAB (R2018b and beyond).

The commits in the pull request add a new `build_support` folder to the MATLAB subfolder in the Arrow repository. This `build_support` folder contains two functions called `compile` and `test` that use the `ARROW_HOME` environment variable and the `mex` command to build the necessary MEX files.

For example:

``` matlab
>> cd build_support
>> compile
...lots of output...
>> test
...successfully passed all tests...
```

Thanks to Mark (@mcafaro) for implementing this and working through the initial review in https://github.com/mathworks/arrow/pull/13

Author: Mark Cafaro <mark.cafaro@mathworks.com>
Author: rdmello <rylan.dmello@mathworks.com>
Author: Mark Cafaro <34887852+mcafaro@users.noreply.github.com>

Closes #4321 from rdmello/ARROW-5329 and squashes the following commits:

1a14d83b3 <rdmello> Updating README.md with instructions for building directly using MATLAB
a685bce91 <Mark Cafaro> Switched from MATLAB char arrays to strings
39e8e2a2b <Mark Cafaro> Changed MATLAB MEX compilation to use RPATH only on UNIX systems
a90af5a3d <Mark Cafaro> Changed MATLAB variable names to be more clear
f9e1aeed7 <Mark Cafaro> Fixed MATLAB variable name
03729828d <Mark Cafaro> Added functions for MATLAB build support

matlab/README.md, after:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

## MATLAB Library for Apache Arrow

## Status

This is a very early stage MATLAB interface to the Apache Arrow C++ libraries.

The current code only supports reading numeric types from Feather files.

## Building from source

### Get Arrow and build Arrow CPP

See: [Arrow CPP README](../cpp/README.md)

### Build MATLAB interface to Apache Arrow using MATLAB R2018a:

    cd arrow/matlab
    mkdir build
    cd build
    cmake ..
    make

#### Non-standard MATLAB and Arrow installations

To specify a non-standard MATLAB install location, use the Matlab_ROOT_DIR CMake flag:

    cmake .. -DMatlab_ROOT_DIR=/<PATH_TO_MATLAB_INSTALL>

To specify a non-standard Arrow install location, use the ARROW_HOME CMake flag:

    cmake .. -DARROW_HOME=/<PATH_TO_ARROW_INSTALL>

### Build MATLAB interface to Arrow using MATLAB R2018b or later:

This may be preferred if you are using MATLAB R2018b or later and have encountered [linker errors](https://gitlab.kitware.com/cmake/cmake/issues/18391) when using CMake.

Prerequisite: Ensure that the Arrow C++ library is already installed and the `ARROW_HOME` environment variable is set to the installation root.

To verify this, you can run:

``` matlab
>> getenv ARROW_HOME
```

This should print a path that contains `include` and `lib` directories with Arrow C++ headers and libraries.

Navigate to the `build_support` subfolder and run the `compile` function to build the necessary MEX files:

``` matlab
>> cd build_support
>> compile
```

Run the `test` function to execute the unit tests:

``` matlab
>> test
```

## Try it out

### Add the src and build directories to your MATLAB path

``` matlab
>> cd(fullfile('arrow', 'matlab'));
>> addpath src;
>> addpath build;
```

### Read a Feather file into MATLAB as a table

``` matlab
>> filename = fullfile('arrow', 'matlab', 'test', 'numericDatatypesWithNoNulls.feather');
>> t = featherread(filename);
```

This should return a MATLAB table datatype containing the Feather file contents.

## Running the tests

``` matlab
>> cd(fullfile('arrow', 'matlab'));
>> addpath src;
>> addpath build;
>> cd test;
>> runtests .;
```
