docs/source/index.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Apache Arrow
============

Apache Arrow is a cross-language development platform for in-memory data. It
specifies a standardized language-independent columnar memory format for flat
and hierarchical data, organized for efficient analytic operations on modern
hardware. It also provides computational libraries and zero-copy streaming
messaging and interprocess communication.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Memory Format

   format/README
   format/Guidelines
   format/Layout
   format/Metadata
   format/IPC

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Languages

   cpp/index
   python/index

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Developers

   developers/index

Commit message:

ARROW-4339: [C++][Python] Developer documentation overhaul for 0.13 release
This was pretty much a huge pain but addresses accumulated documentation debt after the conda compiler migration and the CMake refactor. I suggest we not stress too much over small details on this and do more work to improve these docs in follow up PRs. I did the best I could under the circumstances and need to move on to other things now

I think the overall organization of the Sphinx project for developers is much improved, take a look (I will post a link to a published version for review)

JIRAs addressed by this PR and other things I did

* Update cpp/thirdparty/README.md given CMake refactor (this was totally out of date). This now directs users to the Sphinx C++ developer guide

* ARROW-4339: Move cpp/README.md to Sphinx documentation (and clean it up a lot!!)
* ARROW-4425: Move Contributing Guidelines from Confluence to Sphinx, update top level README
* ARROW-4232: Remove references to pre-gcc5 ABI issues
* ARROW-4165: Move Windows C++ developer guide to Sphinx (from cpp/apidoc/Windows.md)
* ARROW-4547: Update Python development instructions re: producing CUDA-enabled pyarrow
* ARROW-4326 / ARROW-3096: Update Python build instructions re: January 2019 compiler migration

Author: Wes McKinney <wesm+git@apache.org>

Closes #3942 from wesm/developer-docs-0.13 and squashes the following commits:

a3c3dd5de <Wes McKinney> Add some Boost info, misc cleaning
2ccc3de18 <Wes McKinney> Remove index.md altogether
66da97e7f <Wes McKinney> Remove unused text from cpp/apidoc/index.md
504bc134e <Wes McKinney> restore 'what's in the arrow libraries' section
8d1f33e19 <Wes McKinney> Finish initial documentation revamp for 0.13, stopping here
84dd680a2 <Wes McKinney> Some docs reorg, begin rewriting cpp/README.md into docs/source/developers/cpp.rst

docs/source/index.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Apache Arrow
============

Apache Arrow is a development platform for in-memory analytics. It contains a
set of technologies that enable big data systems to process and move data
fast. It specifies a standardized language-independent columnar memory format
for flat and hierarchical data, organized for efficient analytic operations on
modern hardware.

The project is developing a multi-language collection of libraries for solving
systems problems related to in-memory analytical data processing. This includes
such topics as:

* Zero-copy shared memory and RPC-based data movement
* Reading and writing file formats (like CSV, Apache ORC, and Apache Parquet)
* In-memory analytics and query processing

.. _toc.columnar:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :caption: Arrow Columnar Format

   format/README
   format/Guidelines
   format/Layout
   format/Metadata
   format/IPC

.. _toc.usage:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Arrow Libraries

   cpp/index
   python/index

.. _toc.development:

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Development and Contributing

   developers/index
