python/doc/source/index.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Apache Arrow (Python)
=====================

Arrow is a columnar in-memory analytics layer designed to accelerate big data.
It houses a set of canonical in-memory representations of flat and hierarchical
data along with multiple language-bindings for structure manipulation. It also
provides IPC and common algorithm implementations.

This is the documentation of the Python API of Apache Arrow. For more details
on the format and other language bindings see
`the main page for Arrow <https://arrow.apache.org/>`_. Here will we only
detail the usage of the Python API for Arrow and the leaf libraries that add
additional functionality such as reading Apache Parquet files into Arrow
structures.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started

   install
   development
   memory
   data
   ipc
   filesystems
   plasma
   pandas
   parquet
   extending
   api
   getting_involved

Commit message:

ARROW-1784: [Python] Enable zero-copy serialization, deserialization of pandas.DataFrame via components
This patch adds a serialization path for pandas.DataFrame (and Series) that decomposes the internal BlockManager into a dictionary structure that can be serialized to the zero-copy component representation from ARROW-1783, and then reconstructed similarly.

The impact of this is that when a DataFrame has no data that requires pickling, the reconstruction is zero-copy. I will post some benchmarks to illustrate the impact of this. The performance improvements are pretty remarkable, nearly 1000x speedup on a large DataFrame.

As some follow-up work, we will need to do more efficient serialization of the different pandas Index types. We should create a new JIRA for this

Author: Wes McKinney <wes.mckinney@twosigma.com>

Closes #1390 from wesm/ARROW-1784 and squashes the following commits:

21adbe7d [Wes McKinney] Do not test with IntervalIndex in pandas < 0.21, since manylinux1 is pinned at 0.20.1
939c02bb [Wes McKinney] Add pandas serialization test for periods, intervals
4b4c776c [Wes McKinney] Code comment, add more serialization docs for pandas / component serialization
1ac073c3 [Wes McKinney] Complete component-based serializer for pandas.DataFrame
6b01746d [Wes McKinney] Begin refactoring

python/doc/source/index.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Apache Arrow (Python)
=====================

Apache Arrow is a cross-language development platform for in-memory data. It
specifies a standardized language-independent columnar memory format for flat
and hierarchical data, organized for efficient analytic operations on modern
hardware. It also provides computational libraries and zero-copy streaming
messaging and interprocess communication.

The Arrow Python bindings have first-class integration with NumPy, pandas, and
built-in Python objects.

This is the documentation of the Python API of Apache Arrow. For more details
on the format and other language bindings see
`the main page for Arrow <https://arrow.apache.org/>`_. Here will we only
detail the usage of the Python API for Arrow and the leaf libraries that add
additional functionality such as reading Apache Parquet files into Arrow
structures.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Getting Started

   install
   development
   memory
   data
   ipc
   filesystems
   plasma
   pandas
   parquet
   extending
   api
   getting_involved
