python/doc/source/install.rst, before:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Install PyArrow
===============

Conda
-----

To install the latest version of PyArrow from conda-forge using conda:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install -c conda-forge pyarrow

Pip
---

Install the latest version from PyPI:

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install pyarrow

.. note::

    Currently there are only binary artifacts available for Linux and MacOS.
    Otherwise this will only pull the python sources and assumes an existing
    installation of the C++ part of Arrow.  To retrieve the binary artifacts,
    you'll need a recent ``pip`` version that supports features like the
    ``manylinux1`` tag.

Installing from source
----------------------

See :ref:`development`.

Commit message:

ARROW-1554: [Python] Update Sphinx install page to note that VC14 runtime may need to be installed on Windows
Close #819 (tidying)

Author: Wes McKinney <wes.mckinney@twosigma.com>

Closes #1115 from wesm/ARROW-1554 and squashes the following commits:

a7c3e279 [Wes McKinney] Update Sphinx install page to note that VC14 runtime may need to be installed separately when using pip on Windows

python/doc/source/install.rst, after:

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

Install PyArrow
===============

Conda
-----

To install the latest version of PyArrow from conda-forge using conda:

.. code-block:: bash

    conda install -c conda-forge pyarrow

Pip
---

Install the latest version from PyPI (Windows, Linux, and macOS):

.. code-block:: bash

    pip install pyarrow

If you encounter any importing issues of the pip wheels on Windows, you may
need to install the `Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio 2015
<https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/download/details.aspx?id=48145>`_.

.. note::

   Windows packages are only available for Python 3.5 and higher (this is also
   true for TensorFlow and any package that is implemented with modern C++).

Installing from source
----------------------

See :ref:`development`.
