java/README.md, before:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

# Arrow Java

## Setup Build Environment

install:
 - java 7 or later
 - maven 3.3 or later

## Building and running tests

```
git submodule update --init --recursive # Needed for flight
cd java
mvn install
```
## Building and running tests for arrow jni modules like gandiva and orc (optional)

[Arrow Cpp][2] must be built before this step. The cpp build directory must
be provided as the value for argument arrow.cpp.build.dir. eg.

```
cd java
mvn install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../../release
```

The gandiva library is still in Alpha stages, and subject to API changes without
deprecation warnings.

## Flatbuffers dependency

Arrow uses Google's Flatbuffers to transport metadata.  The java version of the library
requires the generated flatbuffer classes can only be used with the same version that
generated them.  Arrow packages a verion of the arrow-vector module that shades flatbuffers
and arrow-format into a single JAR.  Using the classifier "shade-format-flatbuffers" in your
pom.xml will make use of this JAR, you can then exclude/resolve the original dependency to
a version of your choosing.

## Java Code Style Guide

Arrow Java follows the Google style guide [here][3] with the following
differences:

* Imports are grouped, from top to bottom, in this order: static imports,
standard Java, org.\*, com.\*
* Line length can be up to 120 characters
* Operators for line wrapping are at end-of-line
* Naming rules for methods, parameters, etc. have been relaxed
* Disabled `NoFinalizer`, `OverloadMethodsDeclarationOrder`, and
`VariableDeclarationUsageDistance` due to the existing code base. These rules
should be followed when possible.

Refer to `java/dev/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml for rule specifics.

## Test Logging Configuration

When running tests, Arrow Java uses the Logback logger with SLF4J. By default,
it uses the logback.xml present in the corresponding module's src/test/resources
directory, which has the default log level set to INFO.
Arrow Java can be built with an alternate logback configuration file using the
following command run in the project root directory:

```bash
mvn -Dlogback.configurationFile=file:<path-of-logback-file>
```

See [Logback Configuration][1] for more details.

[1]: https://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html
[2]: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/cpp/README.md
[3]: http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html

Commit message:

ARROW-6206: [Java][Docs] Document environment variables/java properties
Related to [ARROW-6206](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ARROW-6206).
Specifically, "-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true" for JVMs >= 9 and BoundsChecking/NullChecking for get.

Closes #5078 from tianchen92/ARROW-6206 and squashes the following commits:

5bd5ae459 <tianchen92> Update java/README.md
a19498c12 <tianchen92> Update java/README.md
225770b30 <tianchen92> Update java/README.md
9a4b43c45 <tianchen92> Update java/README.md
6565185c1 <tianchen92> Update java/README.md
fd1bc5841 <tianchen> ARROW-6206:  Document environment variables/java properties

Lead-authored-by: tianchen <niki.lj@alibaba-inc.com>
Co-authored-by: tianchen92 <875529044@qq.com>
Signed-off-by: Micah Kornfield <emkornfield@gmail.com>

java/README.md, after:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

# Arrow Java

## Setup Build Environment

install:
 - java 7 or later
 - maven 3.3 or later

## Building and running tests

```
git submodule update --init --recursive # Needed for flight
cd java
mvn install
```
## Building and running tests for arrow jni modules like gandiva and orc (optional)

[Arrow Cpp][2] must be built before this step. The cpp build directory must
be provided as the value for argument arrow.cpp.build.dir. eg.

```
cd java
mvn install -P arrow-jni -am -Darrow.cpp.build.dir=../../release
```

The gandiva library is still in Alpha stages, and subject to API changes without
deprecation warnings.

## Flatbuffers dependency

Arrow uses Google's Flatbuffers to transport metadata.  The java version of the library
requires the generated flatbuffer classes can only be used with the same version that
generated them.  Arrow packages a verion of the arrow-vector module that shades flatbuffers
and arrow-format into a single JAR.  Using the classifier "shade-format-flatbuffers" in your
pom.xml will make use of this JAR, you can then exclude/resolve the original dependency to
a version of your choosing.

## Performance Tuning

There are several system/environmental variables that users can configure.  These trade off safety (they turn off checking) for speed.  Typically they are only used in production settings after the code has been thoroughly tested without using them.

* Bounds Checking for memory accesses: Bounds checking is on by default.  You can disable it by setting either the 
system property("arrow.enable_unsafe_memory_access") or the environmental variable
("ARROW_ENABLE_UNSAFE_MEMORY_ACCESS") to "true". When both the system property and the environmental 
variable are set, the system property takes precedence.

* null checking for gets: ValueVector get methods (not getObject) methods by default verify the slot is not null.  You can disable it by setting either the 
system property("arrow.enable_null_check_for_get") or the environmental variable 
("ARROW_ENABLE_NULL_CHECK_FOR_GET") to "false". When both the system property and the environmental 
variable are set, the system property takes precedence. 

## Java Properties

For java 9 or later, should set "-Dio.netty.tryReflectionSetAccessible=true".
This fixes `java.lang.UnsupportedOperationException: sun.misc.Unsafe or java.nio.DirectByteBuffer.(long, int) not available`. thrown by netty.
## Java Code Style Guide

Arrow Java follows the Google style guide [here][3] with the following
differences:

* Imports are grouped, from top to bottom, in this order: static imports,
standard Java, org.\*, com.\*
* Line length can be up to 120 characters
* Operators for line wrapping are at end-of-line
* Naming rules for methods, parameters, etc. have been relaxed
* Disabled `NoFinalizer`, `OverloadMethodsDeclarationOrder`, and
`VariableDeclarationUsageDistance` due to the existing code base. These rules
should be followed when possible.

Refer to `java/dev/checkstyle/checkstyle.xml for rule specifics.

## Test Logging Configuration

When running tests, Arrow Java uses the Logback logger with SLF4J. By default,
it uses the logback.xml present in the corresponding module's src/test/resources
directory, which has the default log level set to INFO.
Arrow Java can be built with an alternate logback configuration file using the
following command run in the project root directory:

```bash
mvn -Dlogback.configurationFile=file:<path-of-logback-file>
```

See [Logback Configuration][1] for more details.

[1]: https://logback.qos.ch/manual/configuration.html
[2]: https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/cpp/README.md
[3]: http://google.github.io/styleguide/javaguide.html
