rust/README.md, before:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

# Native Rust implementation of Apache Arrow

## The Rust implementation of Arrow consists of the following crates

| Crate     | Description | Documentation |
|-----------|-------------|---------------|
|Arrow      | Core functionality (memory layout, array builders, low level computations) | [(README)](arrow/README.md) |
|Parquet    | Parquet support | [(README)](parquet/README.md) |
|DataFusion | In-memory query engine with SQL support | [(README)](datafusion/README.md) |

## Prerequisites

Before running tests and examples it is necessary to set up the local development enviroment.

### Git Submodules

The tests rely on test data that is contained in git submodules.

To pull down this data run the following:

```bash
git submodule update --init
```

This populates data in two git submodules:

- `cpp/submodules/parquet_testing/data` (sourced from https://github.com/apache/parquet-testing.git)
- `testing` (sourced from https://github.com/apache/arrow-testing)

Create a new environment variable called `PARQUET_TEST_DATA` to point
to `cpp/submodules/parquet-testing/data` and then `cargo test` as usual.

## Code Formatting

Our CI uses `rustfmt` to check code formatting.  Although the project is
built and tested against nightly rust we use the stable version of
`rustfmt`.  So before submitting a PR be sure to run the following
and check for lint issues:

```bash
cargo +stable fmt --all -- --check
```

Commit message:

ARROW-5053: [Rust] [DataFusion] Use ARROW_TEST_DATA env var
Use `ARROW_TEST_DATA` env var instead of hard-coded relative paths.

Author: Andy Grove <andygrove73@gmail.com>

Closes #4068 from andygrove/ARROW-5053 and squashes the following commits:

1b807f16 <Andy Grove> address PR feedback
ecd5d1c1 <Andy Grove> fix typo
cbf5b2a0 <Andy Grove> Change directory from testing to arrow-testing for consistency
635eb09b <Andy Grove> set ARROW_TEST_DATA in verify-release-candidate
55c07e06 <Andy Grove> set ARROW_TEST_DATA in verify-release-candidate
2c51e4cb <Andy Grove> Set ARROW_TEST_DATA in CI
fa0dca63 <Andy Grove> delete kcov files
06ae7e77 <Andy Grove> delete kcov files
3d636309 <Andy Grove> remove kvoc files
e3c69201 <Andy Grove> Use ARROW_TEST_DATA env var to locate test data files

rust/README.md, after:

<!---
  Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
  or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
  distributed with this work for additional information
  regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
  to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
  "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
  with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
  software distributed under the License is distributed on an
  "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
  KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
  specific language governing permissions and limitations
  under the License.
-->

# Native Rust implementation of Apache Arrow

## The Rust implementation of Arrow consists of the following crates

| Crate     | Description | Documentation |
|-----------|-------------|---------------|
|Arrow      | Core functionality (memory layout, array builders, low level computations) | [(README)](arrow/README.md) |
|Parquet    | Parquet support | [(README)](parquet/README.md) |
|DataFusion | In-memory query engine with SQL support | [(README)](datafusion/README.md) |

## Prerequisites

Before running tests and examples it is necessary to set up the local development enviroment.

### Git Submodules

The tests rely on test data that is contained in git submodules.

To pull down this data run the following:

```bash
git submodule update --init
```

This populates data in two git submodules:

- `cpp/submodules/parquet_testing/data` (sourced from https://github.com/apache/parquet-testing.git)
- `testing` (sourced from https://github.com/apache/arrow-testing)

Create two new environment variables to point to these directories as follows:

```bash
export PARQUET_TEST_DATA=/path/to/arrow/cpp/submodules/parquet-testing/data
export ARROW_TEST_DATA=/path/to/arrow/testing/data/
```

It is now possible to run `cargo test` as usual.

## Code Formatting

Our CI uses `rustfmt` to check code formatting.  Although the project is
built and tested against nightly rust we use the stable version of
`rustfmt`.  So before submitting a PR be sure to run the following
and check for lint issues:

```bash
cargo +stable fmt --all -- --check
```
