r/README.md, before:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# arrow

[![cran](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version-last-release/arrow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arrow)
[![conda-forge](https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/r-arrow.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/r-arrow)
[![Nightly macOS Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly)
[![Nightly Windows Build
Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ume8udm5r26u2c9l/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nealrichardson/arrow-r-nightly-yxl55/branch/master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly)

[Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/) is a cross-language
development platform for in-memory data. It specifies a standardized
language-independent columnar memory format for flat and hierarchical
data, organized for efficient analytic operations on modern hardware. It
also provides computational libraries and zero-copy streaming messaging
and interprocess communication.

The `arrow` package exposes an interface to the Arrow C++ library to
access many of its features in R. This includes support for working with
Parquet (`read_parquet()`, `write_parquet()`) and Feather
(`read_feather()`, `write_feather()`) files, as well as lower-level
access to Arrow memory and messages.

## Installation

Install the latest release of `arrow` from CRAN with

``` r
install.packages("arrow")
```

> Warning: the macOS binary packages on CRAN for 0.14.1 do not work as
> described below. To install, you’ll first need to use Homebrew to get
> the Arrow C++ library (`brew install apache-arrow`), and then from R
> you can `install.packages("arrow", type = "source")`. We hope to have
> this resolved in the next release.

On macOS and Windows, installing a binary package from CRAN will handle
Arrow’s C++ dependencies for you. On Linux, you’ll need to first install
the C++ library. See the [Arrow project installation
page](https://arrow.apache.org/install/) to find pre-compiled binary
packages for some common Linux distributions, including Debian, Ubuntu,
and CentOS. You’ll need to install `libparquet-dev` on Debian and
Ubuntu, or `parquet-devel` on CentOS. This will also automatically
install the Arrow C++ library as a dependency. Other Linux distributions
must install the C++ library from source.

If you install the `arrow` package from source and the C++ library is
not found, the R package functions will notify you that Arrow is not
available. Call

``` r
arrow::install_arrow()
```

for version- and platform-specific guidance on installing the Arrow C++
library.

When installing from source, if the R and C++ library versions do not
match, installation may fail. If you’ve previously installed the
libraries and want to upgrade the R package, you’ll need to update the
Arrow C++ library first.

## Example

``` r
library(arrow)
set.seed(24)

tab <- arrow::table(x = 1:10, y = rnorm(10))
tab$schema
#> arrow::Schema 
#> x: int32
#> y: double
tab
#> arrow::Table
as.data.frame(tab)
#>     x            y
#> 1   1 -0.545880758
#> 2   2  0.536585304
#> 3   3  0.419623149
#> 4   4 -0.583627199
#> 5   5  0.847460017
#> 6   6  0.266021979
#> 7   7  0.444585270
#> 8   8 -0.466495124
#> 9   9 -0.848370044
#> 10 10  0.002311942
```

## Installing a development version

Binary R packages for macOS and Windows are built daily and hosted at
<https://dl.bintray.com/ursalabs/arrow-r/>. To install from there:

``` r
install.packages("arrow", repos="https://dl.bintray.com/ursalabs/arrow-r")
```

These daily package builds are not official Apache releases and are not
recommended for production use. They may be useful for testing bug fixes
and new features under active development.

Linux users will need to build the Arrow C++ library from source. See
“Development” below. Once you have the C++ library, you can install
the R package from GitHub using the
[`remotes`](https://remotes.r-lib.org/) package. From within an R
session,

``` r
# install.packages("remotes") # Or install "devtools", which includes remotes
remotes::install_github("apache/arrow/r")
```

or if you prefer to stay at the command line,

``` shell
R -e 'remotes::install_github("apache/arrow/r")'
```

You can specify a particular commit, branch, or
[release](https://github.com/apache/arrow/releases) to install by
including a `ref` argument to `install_github()`. This is particularly
useful to match the R package version to the C++ library version you’ve
installed.

## Developing

Windows and macOS users who wish to contribute to the R package and
don’t need to alter the Arrow C++ library may be able to obtain a
recent version of the library without building from source. On macOS,
you may install the C++ library using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

``` shell
# For the released version:
brew install apache-arrow
# Or for a development version, you can try:
brew install apache-arrow --HEAD
```

On Windows, you can download a .zip file with the arrow dependencies
from the [rwinlib](https://github.com/rwinlib/arrow/releases) project,
and then set the `RWINLIB_LOCAL` environment variable to point to that
zip file before installing the `arrow` R package. That project contains
released versions of the C++ library; for a development version, Windows
users may be able to find a binary by going to the [Apache Arrow
project’s
Appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/arrow),
selecting an R job from a recent build, and downloading the
`build\arrow-*.zip` file from the “Artifacts” tab.

If you need to alter both the Arrow C++ library and the R package code,
or if you can’t get a binary version of the latest C++ library
elsewhere, you’ll need to build it from source too.

First, install the C++ library. See the [C++ developer
guide](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/cpp.html) for details.

Note that after any change to the C++ library, you must reinstall it and
run `make clean` or `git clean -fdx .` to remove any cached object code
in the `r/src/` directory before reinstalling the R package. This is
only necessary if you make changes to the C++ library source; you do not
need to manually purge object files if you are only editing R or Rcpp
code inside `r/`.

Once you’ve built the C++ library, you can install the R package and its
dependencies, along with additional dev dependencies, from the git
checkout:

``` shell
cd ../../r
R -e 'install.packages(c("devtools", "roxygen2", "pkgdown")); devtools::install_dev_deps()'
R CMD INSTALL .
```

If you need to set any compilation flags while building the Rcpp
extensions, you can use the `ARROW_R_CXXFLAGS` environment variable. For
example, if you are using `perf` to profile the R extensions, you may
need to set

``` shell
export ARROW_R_CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer
```

If the package fails to install/load with an error like this:

    ** testing if installed package can be loaded from temporary location
    Error: package or namespace load failed for 'arrow' in dyn.load(file, DLLpath = DLLpath, ...):
    unable to load shared object '/Users/you/R/00LOCK-r/00new/arrow/libs/arrow.so':
    dlopen(/Users/you/R/00LOCK-r/00new/arrow/libs/arrow.so, 6): Library not loaded: @rpath/libarrow.14.dylib

try setting the environment variable `R_LD_LIBRARY_PATH` to wherever
Arrow C++ was put in `make install`, e.g. `export
R_LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib`, and retry installing the R package.

For any other build/configuration challenges, see the [C++ developer
guide](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/cpp.html#building).

### Editing Rcpp code

The `arrow` package uses some customized tools on top of `Rcpp` to
prepare its C++ code in `src/`. If you change C++ code in the R package,
you will need to set the `ARROW_R_DEV` environment variable to `TRUE`
(optionally, add it to your`~/.Renviron` file to persist across
sessions) so that the `data-raw/codegen.R` file is used for code
generation.

The codegen.R script has these dependencies:

``` r
remotes::install_github("romainfrancois/decor")
install.packages(c("dplyr", "purrr", "glue"))
```

### Useful functions

Within an R session, these can help with package development:

``` r
devtools::load_all() # Load the dev package
devtools::test(filter="^regexp$") # Run the test suite, optionally filtering file names
devtools::document() # Update roxygen documentation
rmarkdown::render("README.Rmd") # To rebuild README.md
pkgdown::build_site() # To preview the documentation website
devtools::check() # All package checks; see also below
```

Any of those can be run from the command line by wrapping them in `R -e
'$COMMAND'`. There’s also a `Makefile` to help with some common tasks
from the command line (`make test`, `make doc`, `make clean`, etc.)

### Full package validation

``` shell
R CMD build --keep-empty-dirs .
R CMD check arrow_*.tar.gz --as-cran --no-manual
```

Commit message:

ARROW-6182: [R] Add note to README about r-arrow conda installation
cc @xhochy

Closes #5142 from nealrichardson/r-conda-install and squashes the following commits:

71a76d08f <Neal Richardson> Add instructions on installing from conda to the R README

Authored-by: Neal Richardson <neal.p.richardson@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Wes McKinney <wesm+git@apache.org>

r/README.md, after:


<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->

# arrow

[![cran](https://www.r-pkg.org/badges/version-last-release/arrow)](https://cran.r-project.org/package=arrow)
[![conda-forge](https://img.shields.io/conda/vn/conda-forge/r-arrow.svg)](https://anaconda.org/conda-forge/r-arrow)
[![Nightly macOS Build
Status](https://travis-ci.org/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly)
[![Nightly Windows Build
Status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/ume8udm5r26u2c9l/branch/master?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/nealrichardson/arrow-r-nightly-yxl55/branch/master)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/ursa-labs/arrow-r-nightly)

[Apache Arrow](https://arrow.apache.org/) is a cross-language
development platform for in-memory data. It specifies a standardized
language-independent columnar memory format for flat and hierarchical
data, organized for efficient analytic operations on modern hardware. It
also provides computational libraries and zero-copy streaming messaging
and interprocess communication.

The `arrow` package exposes an interface to the Arrow C++ library to
access many of its features in R. This includes support for working with
Parquet (`read_parquet()`, `write_parquet()`) and Feather
(`read_feather()`, `write_feather()`) files, as well as lower-level
access to Arrow memory and messages.

## Installation

Install the latest release of `arrow` from CRAN with

``` r
install.packages("arrow")
```

Conda users on Linux and macOS can install `arrow` from conda-forge with

    conda install -c conda-forge r-arrow

On macOS and Windows, installing a binary package from CRAN will handle
Arrow’s C++ dependencies for you. On Linux, unless you use `conda`
you’ll need to first install the C++ library. See the [Arrow project
installation page](https://arrow.apache.org/install/) to find
pre-compiled binary packages for some common Linux distributions,
including Debian, Ubuntu, and CentOS. You’ll need to install
`libparquet-dev` on Debian and Ubuntu, or `parquet-devel` on CentOS.
This will also automatically install the Arrow C++ library as a
dependency. Other Linux distributions must install the C++ library from
source.

If you install the `arrow` package from source and the C++ library is
not found, the R package functions will notify you that Arrow is not
available. Call

``` r
arrow::install_arrow()
```

for version- and platform-specific guidance on installing the Arrow C++
library.

When installing from source, if the R and C++ library versions do not
match, installation may fail. If you’ve previously installed the
libraries and want to upgrade the R package, you’ll need to update the
Arrow C++ library first.

## Example

``` r
library(arrow)
set.seed(24)

tab <- arrow::table(x = 1:10, y = rnorm(10))
tab$schema
#> arrow::Schema 
#> x: int32
#> y: double
tab
#> arrow::Table
as.data.frame(tab)
#>     x            y
#> 1   1 -0.545880758
#> 2   2  0.536585304
#> 3   3  0.419623149
#> 4   4 -0.583627199
#> 5   5  0.847460017
#> 6   6  0.266021979
#> 7   7  0.444585270
#> 8   8 -0.466495124
#> 9   9 -0.848370044
#> 10 10  0.002311942
```

## Installing a development version

Binary R packages for macOS and Windows are built daily and hosted at
<https://dl.bintray.com/ursalabs/arrow-r/>. To install from there:

``` r
install.packages("arrow", repos="https://dl.bintray.com/ursalabs/arrow-r")
```

These daily package builds are not official Apache releases and are not
recommended for production use. They may be useful for testing bug fixes
and new features under active development.

Linux users will need to build the Arrow C++ library from source. See
“Development” below. Once you have the C++ library, you can install
the R package from GitHub using the
[`remotes`](https://remotes.r-lib.org/) package. From within an R
session,

``` r
# install.packages("remotes") # Or install "devtools", which includes remotes
remotes::install_github("apache/arrow/r")
```

or if you prefer to stay at the command line,

``` shell
R -e 'remotes::install_github("apache/arrow/r")'
```

You can specify a particular commit, branch, or
[release](https://github.com/apache/arrow/releases) to install by
including a `ref` argument to `install_github()`. This is particularly
useful to match the R package version to the C++ library version you’ve
installed.

## Developing

Windows and macOS users who wish to contribute to the R package and
don’t need to alter the Arrow C++ library may be able to obtain a
recent version of the library without building from source. On macOS,
you may install the C++ library using [Homebrew](https://brew.sh/):

``` shell
# For the released version:
brew install apache-arrow
# Or for a development version, you can try:
brew install apache-arrow --HEAD
```

On Windows, you can download a .zip file with the arrow dependencies
from the [rwinlib](https://github.com/rwinlib/arrow/releases) project,
and then set the `RWINLIB_LOCAL` environment variable to point to that
zip file before installing the `arrow` R package. That project contains
released versions of the C++ library; for a development version, Windows
users may be able to find a binary by going to the [Apache Arrow
project’s
Appveyor](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/ApacheSoftwareFoundation/arrow),
selecting an R job from a recent build, and downloading the
`build\arrow-*.zip` file from the “Artifacts” tab.

If you need to alter both the Arrow C++ library and the R package code,
or if you can’t get a binary version of the latest C++ library
elsewhere, you’ll need to build it from source too.

First, install the C++ library. See the [C++ developer
guide](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/cpp.html) for details.

Note that after any change to the C++ library, you must reinstall it and
run `make clean` or `git clean -fdx .` to remove any cached object code
in the `r/src/` directory before reinstalling the R package. This is
only necessary if you make changes to the C++ library source; you do not
need to manually purge object files if you are only editing R or Rcpp
code inside `r/`.

Once you’ve built the C++ library, you can install the R package and its
dependencies, along with additional dev dependencies, from the git
checkout:

``` shell
cd ../../r
R -e 'install.packages(c("devtools", "roxygen2", "pkgdown")); devtools::install_dev_deps()'
R CMD INSTALL .
```

If you need to set any compilation flags while building the Rcpp
extensions, you can use the `ARROW_R_CXXFLAGS` environment variable. For
example, if you are using `perf` to profile the R extensions, you may
need to set

``` shell
export ARROW_R_CXXFLAGS=-fno-omit-frame-pointer
```

If the package fails to install/load with an error like this:

    ** testing if installed package can be loaded from temporary location
    Error: package or namespace load failed for 'arrow' in dyn.load(file, DLLpath = DLLpath, ...):
    unable to load shared object '/Users/you/R/00LOCK-r/00new/arrow/libs/arrow.so':
    dlopen(/Users/you/R/00LOCK-r/00new/arrow/libs/arrow.so, 6): Library not loaded: @rpath/libarrow.14.dylib

try setting the environment variable `R_LD_LIBRARY_PATH` to wherever
Arrow C++ was put in `make install`, e.g. `export
R_LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib`, and retry installing the R package.

For any other build/configuration challenges, see the [C++ developer
guide](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/developers/cpp.html#building).

### Editing Rcpp code

The `arrow` package uses some customized tools on top of `Rcpp` to
prepare its C++ code in `src/`. If you change C++ code in the R package,
you will need to set the `ARROW_R_DEV` environment variable to `TRUE`
(optionally, add it to your`~/.Renviron` file to persist across
sessions) so that the `data-raw/codegen.R` file is used for code
generation.

The codegen.R script has these dependencies:

``` r
remotes::install_github("romainfrancois/decor")
install.packages(c("dplyr", "purrr", "glue"))
```

### Useful functions

Within an R session, these can help with package development:

``` r
devtools::load_all() # Load the dev package
devtools::test(filter="^regexp$") # Run the test suite, optionally filtering file names
devtools::document() # Update roxygen documentation
rmarkdown::render("README.Rmd") # To rebuild README.md
pkgdown::build_site() # To preview the documentation website
devtools::check() # All package checks; see also below
```

Any of those can be run from the command line by wrapping them in `R -e
'$COMMAND'`. There’s also a `Makefile` to help with some common tasks
from the command line (`make test`, `make doc`, `make clean`, etc.)

### Full package validation

``` shell
R CMD build --keep-empty-dirs .
R CMD check arrow_*.tar.gz --as-cran --no-manual
```
